# Introduction

## What is OBLOADER?

OBLOADER is a client tool that is developed in Java. At present, OBLOADER applies only to OceanBase Database. You can use OBLOADER to import database definitions and table data files from the storage media to OceanBase Database.
We recommend that you use OBLOADER in combination with OBDUMPER. OBLOADER is compatible with the CSV files exported by using client tools such as mysqldump or Mydumper. Therefore, you can use OBLOADER in data migration.
OBLOADER provides various types of built-in data preprocessing functions to improve its data import performance. The automatic fault tolerance mechanism ensures data import stability. Rich monitoring information is provided for you to observe the import performance and progress in real time.

## What is OBDUMPER?

OBDUMPER is a client tool that is developed in Java. At present, OBDUMPER applies only to OceanBase Database. You can use OBDUMPER to export objects and table data from OceanBase Database to the storage media in the specified file format.
To use OBDUMPER in logical backup, you can directly integrate OBDUMPER to the database O&M system. OBDUMPER cannot be used in incremental backup. Compared with other client export tools such as mysqldump, OBDUMPER has the following benefits:

- Quick data export: Multiple data query strategies are designed to significantly improve the export performance.

- Versatile data exchange capabilities: Data in tables can be exported to multiple types of storage media in different formats.

- Powerful data processing capabilities: Data is compressed, encrypted, desensitized, and preprocessed before being exported.

## Supported OceanBase Database versions

The following table describes OceanBase Database versions and modes that are supported.


| **OceanBase Database mode** | **Supported version** |
|--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Oracle mode | V2.0.x, V2.1.x, V2.2.20, V2.2.30, V2.2.50, V2.2.70, V2.2.71, V2.2.72, V2.2.76, V2.2.77, V3.1.x, V3.2.x, V4.0.0, and V4.1.0 |
| MySQL mode | V1.4.70, V1.4.72, V1.4.75, V1.4.78, V1.4.79, V2.2.30, V2.2.50, V2.2.70, V2.2.71, V2.2.72, V2.2.76, V2.2.77, V3.1.x, V3.2.x, V4.0.0, and V4.1.0 |

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Description</h4>
    <ul>
    <li>OBLOADER &amp; OBDUMPER V3.0.0 support OceanBase Database Community Edition V3.1.2 and later. </li>
    <li>OBLOADER &amp; OBDUMPER are no longer distinguished by the community edition and enterprise edition since V4.2.1. </li>
    </ul>
  </main>