# Product Introduction



## What is OBLOADER?

OBLOADER is a client data import tool developed in Java. OBLOADER provides extensive command-line options that allow you to import definitions and data to OceanBase Database in many complex scenarios. We recommend that you use OBLOADER along with OBDUMPER. However, in external services, OBLOADER can also import CSV files that are exported by third-party tools such as Navicat, MyDumper, and SQL Developer. OBLOADER fully exploits the features of the distributed OceanBase Database system. The tool is particularly optimized in import performance and stability, and is enhanced to provide more operation monitoring information, bringing better user experience.

## What is OBDUMPER?

OBDUMPER is a client data export tool developed in Java. You can use it to export data and the DDL statements of objects in OceanBase Database to files.

OBDUMPER has the following advantages over other export tools such as MyDumper and SQL Developer:

* Higher performance: OBDUMPER is specifically optimized for partitioned tables and tables without a primary key.



* More features: OBDUMPER provides various features, including data preprocessing, support for various data formats, and global consistent nonlocking export.

## Supported OceanBase Database versions

The following table describes OceanBase Database modes and versions that are supported.


| **OceanBase Database mode** | **Supported versions** |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Oracle mode | 2.0.x, 2.1.x, 2.2.20, 2.2.30, 2.2.50, 2.2.70, 2.2.71, 2.2.72, 2.2.76, 3.1.x, and 3.2.x |
| MySQL mode | 1.4.70, 1.4.72, 1.4.75, 1.4.78, 1.4.79, 2.2.30, 2.2.50, 2.2.70, 2.2.71, 2.2.72, 2.2.76, 3.1.x, and 3.2.x |


> **Notice**<br>
> OBLOADER & OBDUMPER 3.0.0 supports OceanBase Community Edition 3.1.2 and later.