# Quick start

This topic describes how to have a quick start with OBLOADER & OBDUMPER.

## Step 1: Download the software

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>OBLOADER &amp; OBDUMPER are no longer distinguished by the community edition and enterprise edition since V4.2.1. You can download the software package from OceanBase Download Center. </p>
</main>

Click [here](https://www.oceanbase.com/softwarecenter?_gl=1*nejld*_ga*NDQ5MTc4NTEuMTY3NTIzOTgyOA..*_ga_T35KTM57DZ*MTY4Mzg1ODgwNC44MC4xLjE2ODM4NTg4NTYuOC4wLjA.) to download the package of the latest version, and decompress the package:

```shell
$ unzip ob-loader-dumper-4.2.1-RELEASE.zip
$ cd ob-loader-dumper-4.2.1-RELEASE
```

## Step 2: Configure the running environment

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>You must install Java 8 and configure the <code>JAVA_HOME</code> environment variable in the local environment. We recommend that you install JDK 1.8.0_3xx or later. For more information about environment configuration, see <a href="4.deployment-guide/1.environmental-preparation.md">Prepare the environment</a>. </p>
</main>

This step aims to modify JVM parameters.

A small JVM memory size may affect the performance and stability of the import and export features. For example, a full garbage collection (GC) or GC crash may occur. We recommend that you modify the JVM memory size, which is `-Xms4G -Xmx4G` by default, to 60% of the available memory of the server. If you are good at Java performance tuning, you can modify the JVM parameters in the `JAVA_OPTS` option as needed.

1. Edit the configuration file that contains the `JAVA_OPTS` option.

   - In Linux, edit the `obloader` and `obdumper` scripts in the `{ob-loader-dumper}/bin/` directory.

   - In Windows, edit the `obloader.bat` and `obdumper.bat` scripts in the `{ob-loader-dumper}/bin/windows/` directory.

2. Modify JVM parameters.

   ```shell
   JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -server -Xms4G -Xmx4G -XX:MetaspaceSize=128M -XX:MaxMetaspaceSize=128M -Xss352K"
   JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -XX:+UnlockExperimentalVMOptions -XX:+UseG1GC -Xnoclassgc -XX:+DisableExplicitGC
   ```

## Step 3: Prepare data

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
   <h4>Notice</h4>
   <p>When you try the export feature of OBDUMPER, you do not need to prepare any data. You can directly go to <strong>Step 4</strong>. </p>
</main>

When you try the import feature of OBLOADER, you can use existing data files or use the TPC-H tool to generate temporary data files. The format of content in the imported file must meet related specifications. Identify the data format in the file based on [Is your data ready ](https://open.oceanbase.com/blog/1100272).

## Step 4: Create a database

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
   <h4>Notice</h4>
   <p>When you try the export feature of OBDUMPER, you also need to create tables and insert data into the tables after you create a database. </p>
</main>

1. Deploy an OceanBase cluster by using OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) or OceanBase Deployer (OBD).

2. Create a test database.

3. Create a test table and insert data into the table. This operation is optional when you import data.

## Step 5: Import and export data

### Import data

```shell
./obloader -h 'IP address' -P'Port' -u'User' -t'Tenant' -c'Cluster' -p'Password' -D'Database name' --table 'Table name' --csv -f 'File path' --sys-password 'Password of the sys tenant' --external
```

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>This example only imports data. For more information, see <a href="5.OBLOADER/2.obloader-command-line-options.md">Command-line options of OBLOADER</a>. </p>
</main>

### Export data

```shell
./obdumper -h 'IP address' -P'Port' -u'User' -t'Tenant' -c'Cluster' -p'Password' -D'Database name' --table 'Table name' --csv -f 'File path' --sys-password 'Password of the sys tenant' --skip-check-dir
```

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>This example only exports data. For more information, see <a href="6.OBDUMPER/2.obdumper-command-line-options.md">Command-line options of OBDUMPER</a>. </p>
</main>


## Step 6: Congratulations

You have had a quick start with OBLOADER & OBDUMPER.   

For more information, refer to the following steps:

- Learn about the operating principles, major features, and differences from other tools of OBLOADER & OBDUMPER from the product introduction. For more information about the tools, see [OBLOADER & OBDUMPER](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/obloader-obdumper-en).

- Welcome to join [OceanBase community](https://open.oceanbase.com/?_gl=1*dqbsdn*_ga*NDQ5MTc4NTEuMTY3NTIzOTgyOA..*_ga_T35KTM57DZ*MTY4Mzg1ODgwNC44MC4xLjE2ODM4NTg4ODUuNjAuMC4w) to discuss issues and requirements on import and export and future plans with OceanBase R&D engineers.




