# OBLOADER & OBDUMPER V4.2.1

OBLOADER & OBDUMPER V4.2.1 released in May 2023 adapt to new features of OceanBase Database V4.1.0. In this version, the import of database object definitions and table data from Hadoop is supported, and the resource management for database connection pools is optimized.

## Version information

* Current version: V4.2.1

* Previous version: V4.2.0

* Version release date: May 17, 2023

## Supported OceanBase Database versions

OBLOADER & OBDUMPER V4.2.1 are applicable to OceanBase Database versions in the following table.


| OceanBase Database mode | Supported versions |
|-------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Oracle mode | V2.0.x, V2.1.x, V2.2.20, V2.2.30, V2.2.50, V2.2.70, V2.2.71, V2.2.72, V2.2.76, V3.1.x, V3.2.x, V4.0.0, and V4.1.0 |
| MySQL mode | V1.4.70, V1.4.72, V1.4.75, V1.4.78, V1.4.79, V2.2.30, V2.2.50, V2.2.70, V2.2.71, V2.2.72, V2.2.76, V3.1.x, V3.2.x, V4.0.0, and V4.1.0 |



## Feature updates

* OBLOADER:

   * The `--include-column-names` option is added, which allows you to specify the column names and column sequence to import data. For more information, see [Command-line options of OBLOADER](../../../5.OBLOADER/2.obloader-command-line-options.md).

   * The `--storage-uri` option is optimized, which allows you to import database object definitions and table data from Hadoop. (Only Kerberos authentication is supported.)


* OBLOADER and OBDUMPER:

   * The configurable session variables are streamlined. For more information, see [Session management](../../../8.obloaderobdumper-session-variables.md).

   * Resource management for connection pools is optimized. The resource consumption is controlled by the `--thread` option.


## Fixed issues

* Permission authentication configured in `secure.crt` is unavailable for OBDUMPER and OBLOADER.

* An array is out of range due to the map keyword in the OBLOADER control file.

* The entire task fails because the serialization of a third-party database fails.

* The truncate logic is skipped when OBLOADER imports an empty file and the `--truncate-table` option is specified.

* Not all duplicate records can be collected when `--max-discards` is specified for OBLOADER.

## Known issues

* The exported database object definitions may contain the name of the database to which the object belongs.

* OBDUMPER cannot export PL object definitions from OceanBase Database of versions earlier than V2.2.30 in MySQL mode.

* When you specify `--query-sql` to export DATETIME data, a format issue may occur.

* If you do not specify the password of the sys tenant on the command line, OBDUMPER cannot export table group definitions from OceanBase Database of versions earlier than V2.2.70.

* If you do not specify the password of the sys tenant on the command line, OBDUMPER cannot export index definitions from OceanBase Database of versions earlier than V2.2.50 in Oracle mode.

* If you do not specify the password of the sys tenant on the command line, OBDUMPER cannot export partition information of unique indexes from OceanBase Database of versions earlier than V2.2.70 in Oracle mode.

* If you do not specify the password of the sys tenant on the command line, OBDUMPER cannot export unique index definitions of partitioned tables from OceanBase Database V2.2.70 and later versions in Oracle mode.

* When you use OBLOADER to import data, if the specified file format, such as `--sql` and `--csv`, does not match the actual file format, an error occurs.

* In MySQL mode of OceanBase Database, when you explicitly specify object names, such as the names of tables and views, in a case-sensitive manner to import or export only objects of the case-sensitive names, objects are imported or exported in a case-insensitive manner.



## Considerations

* In a CUT file, each data record is stored in an entire line. When you specify the `--cut` option on the OBDUMPER command line, if the exported data contains a single-character field separator, OBDUMPER escapes special characters in the data, such as separators, carriage returns, and line breaks. For example, if the data is `abc|def` and the separator is `|`, the exported data is `abc\|def`.

* When you specify the `--cut` option on the OBLOADER command line, do not use the `--trail-delimiter` option if no field separator or separator string exists at the end of the data line in the file. Otherwise, a serious error occurs on OBLOADER.

* When you specify the `--logical-database` option on the command line, the definition of a random physical database shard is exported and the shard cannot be directly imported into the database. You need to manually convert the exported physical shard to a logical one before you import it to the database for business use.

* When you specify the `--partition` option on the command line to export data in a partition, you need to specify the name of the subpartition for a composite partitioned table. OBDUMPER cannot export data in a partition of a composite partitioned table. If the specified partition name does not exist, OBDUMPER returns an error.

* When you specify the `--add-extra-message` option on the command line to export table definitions, OBDUMPER exports the name of the table group to which each table belongs. This option depends on privileges of the sys tenant. If OBDUMPER does not have privileges of the sys tenant, do not specify this option.

* Before you use OBDUMPER & OBLOADER on OceanBase Database V3.2.4 or later, set the system parameter `open_cursors` to a large value. Otherwise, an error may occur during the import or export. After the data is imported or exported, reset the system parameter to the initial value, for example, `ALTER SYSTEM SET open_cursors = 65535;`.

* If the schema of a table has been changed in OceanBase Database V4.0.0 or later, you cannot use OBDUMPER to export the baseline data, namely the consistent snapshot data, obtained after the last major compaction. You can manually initiate a major compaction and then re-export the most recent baseline data.

* When you use OBDUMPER of a version earlier than V4.2.0 to export data from a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database, the Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) driver converts the zero date and time values in the database to NULL. If a column has a NOT NULL constraint, an error is reported during the export. OBDUMPER V4.2.0 can export zero date and time values, but cannot identify whether the original data is NULL or zero values during export and forcibly converts the data to zero values by default. In addition, exported zero values of the DATETIME and TIMESTAMP data types may be distorted into non-zero approximate values. If the `sql_mode` variable in the database is specified with the NO_ZERO_DATE or NO_ZERO_IN_DATE constraint, an error is reported when zero-value data is exported. In a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database, data types that involve the preceding zero-value issues include DATE, DATETIME, TIME, YEAR, and TIMESTAMP.
