FAQ 
========================



1. Q: What are the differences between the SQL and DDL formats? 

   A:
   






2. Q: What is the relationship between the format of a data file and the extension of the file?

   A:
   * OBDUMPER supports three file formats: CSV, SQL, and DDL. When you use OBDUMPER, you only need to specify the format of the exported data files, without a need to care about the name or extension of the files.

     
   
   * An exported file in the CSV format is named in the format of **table name.number.csv** by default. An exported file in the SQL format is named in the format of **table name.number.sql** by default. An exported file in the DDL format is named in the format of **table name-schema.sql** .

     
   
   * When you use an external tool to export data, make sure you know the difference between the CSV, SQL, and DDL formats as well as the naming rules of the exported files.

     
   

   




<!-- -->

3. Q: What do I do if the `SELECT command denied to user 'xxx'@'%' for table SYS.XXX` error is reported when I query views? 

   A: This error is reported because you are not authorized to access internal tables and views. Run the following statement to grant the corresponding privilege: `GRANT SELECT SYS.XXX TO xxx;`.
   

4. Q: What is the difference between using OBDUMPER in a public cloud and a private cloud? 

   A: In the public cloud (limited) mode, the `proxyro` permissions are limited, but they are not limited in the private cloud mode. The connection methods in these two cloud environments are also different:

   In a public cloud, OBDUMPER is connected by using the `--public-cloud` option. 

   In a private cloud, OBDUMPER is connected by using the `--sys-password` option or a key file.
   






