File formats 
=================================
#docslug#/obloader-obdumper/obloader-obdumper/V3.1.0/obloader-file-format
This topic describes the file formats supported by OBLOADER and the precautions for using OBLOADER. 

Differences among the files in the CSV, SQL, DDL, CUT, POS, and MIX formats 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* CSV: A file in the CSV format stores data that is organized by following the RFC 4180 standard. We recommend that you use the CSV format.

  

* DDL: A file in the DDL format stores DDL statements.

  

* SQL: A file in the SQL format stores INSERT statements. Each statement occupies one line without line breaks.

  

* CUT: A file in the CUT format stores data separated by a specific string. Each record occupies one line without line breaks.

  

* POS: A file in the POS format stores data that is organized based on a byte offset range with a fixed length. Line breaks are not used.
  MIX: A file in the MIX format stores a mix of DDL and DML statements. We recommend that you do not use the MIX format.

  




Mappings between data file formats and file name extensions 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* All data files are named in the Table.Group.Sequence.Suffix format.

  

* OBLOADER supports six data file formats: CSV, SQL, DDL, CUT, POS, and MIX. 

  * The file name extension of a CSV file is .csv by default.

    
  
  * The file name extension of an SQL file is .sql.

    
  
  * The file name extension of a DDL file is -schema.sql. You can use any extension for all data formats except the DDL format. 

    For example, you can use test.dat as the name of a file in the CSV format, as long as the content of the file is in the standard CSV format. When you import a file, you must specify its extension by adding the --file-suffix '.dat' option to the command. Otherwise, an error is reported to indicate that the data file is not found.
    
  

  




Precautions for using OBLOADER to import data exported by using a third-party tool such as Mydumper or SQL Developer 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* When you import a file in the CSV format, you must specify valid symbols, such as the row delimiters, column delimiters, delimiters, and escape characters.

  

* When you import a file in the SQL format, make sure that the file contains only INSERT statements, and each statement occupies one line without line breaks.

  

* When you import a file in the DDL format, make sure that the file contains only the definition of one object without other unnecessary content such as comments and switch statements.

  

* Set the date and time in the valid format before you import data. This prevents import failures caused by an invalid date and time format.

  




Precautions for specifying the --table option 
------------------------------------------------------------------

You can use the `--table` option to specify a table name. 

If you specify multiple table names, separate them with commas (,). The letter cases of the table name and the file name must be the same. 

Examples:

In MySQL mode, table names are in lowercase by default. In this case, the table name specified by the `--table` option must be in lowercase, and the file name specified by the `-f` option must also be in lowercase.

In Oracle mode, table names are in uppercase by default. In this case, the table name specified by the --table option must be in uppercase, and the file name specified by the -f option must also be in uppercase.

Precautions for importing table schemas and data 
---------------------------------------------------------------------

* When you import a table schema, set the `--threads` to a value no more than 2. The concurrent DDL operations may not speed up the data import. In OceanBase Database, DDL statements are executed in series, and each DDL statement takes 1 second to execute on average.

  

* OBLOADER may use a large amount of memory when a large amount of data is imported. 

  * First, you can open the OBLOADER script in the bin directory and modify the following two Java virtual machine (JVM) parameters: `-Xms4G` and `-Xmx4G`. The -Xms4G parameter specifies the initial heap memory, and the -Xmx4G parameter specifies the maximum heap memory for JVM. We recommend that you set both parameters to 60% of the available physical memory. 

    ```unknow
    vim bin/obloader
    
     50 JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -server -Xms4G -Xmx4G -XX:MetaspaceSize=512M -XX:MaxMetaspaceSize=512M -Xss352K"
    ```

    
  
  * Then, in the command line, you can specify the `--threads` option in the command to control the concurrency. The default value is twice the number of logical CPU cores.

    
  
  * Finally, as the import performance is affected by the number of indexes on the table, we recommend that you set only the primary key and unique key when you create a table, and create indexes after data is imported.

    
  

  

* The incremental memory write speed of the tenant may also affect data import. 

  * Insufficient incremental memory may trigger major or minor compactions. Prevent major compactions because a major compaction greatly affects the import performance. You can enable minor compactions of memory and set the number of minor compactions to more than 100. This way, minor compactions are available for at least 24 hours.

    
  
  * If the incremental memory usage reaches the throttling threshold specified for the tenant, the import performance falls.

    
  
  * If the incremental memory usage reaches the upper limit, data import may fail. We recommend that you set the tenant throttling threshold to more than 90. As the parameters for minor compactions are related to the size and write speed of the tenant memory, you need to optimize the parameter settings as needed.

    
  

  




Differences between using OBLOADER in Alibaba Cloud and in a private cloud 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Difference in proxyro privileges:

  * In a public cloud (limited mode), you have limited proxyro privileges and can export only table data and the schemas of tables and views.

    
  
  * In a private cloud (unlimited mode), you have unlimited proxyro privileges and can export the schemas and data of all objects in a database.

    
  

  

* Difference in connection methods:

  * In Alibaba Cloud, OBLOADER is connected by using the `--public-cloud` option.

    
  
  * In a private cloud, OBLOADER is connected by using the `--sys-password` option or a key file. 

    **Note**

    

    The limited mode does not support all features of OBLOADER. In this mode, the performance and stability of OBLOADER are also affected. In addition, only OceanBase Database V2.2.30 and later support throttling on servers. Therefore, when you use the limited mode, you need to run the following commands to modify the throttling settings on servers:

    ```sql
    alter system set freeze_trigger_percentage=50;
    alter system set minor_merge_concurrence=64;
    alter system set writing_throttling_trigger_percentage=80 t
    ```

    
    
  

  



