File formats 
=================================
#docslug#/obloader-obdumper/obloader-obdumper/V3.1.0/obdumper-file-format
This topic describes the file formats supported by OBDUMBER and the precautions for using OBDUMBER. 

Differences between the files in the SQL and DDL formats 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

* DDL: A file in the DDL format stores DDL statements. Exported files in the DDL format are named in the format of Object name-schema.sql.

  

* SQL: A file in the SQL format stores only INSERT statements. Exported files in the SQL format are named in the format of Object name.sql.

  




Mappings between data file formats and file name extensions 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* OBDUMPER supports three file formats: CSV, SQL, and DDL. When you use OBDUMPER, you need only to specify the format of the exported data files, without the need to pay attention to the name or extension of the files.

  

* By default, an exported file in the CSV format is named in the format of Table name.Number.csv, an exported file in the SQL format is named in the format of Table name.Number.sql, and an exported file in the DDL format is named in the format of Table name-schema.sql.

  

* When you use an external tool to export data, make sure that you understand the differences among the CSV, SQL, and DDL formats as well as the naming rules of the exported files.

  




Precautions for specifying the --table option 
------------------------------------------------------------------

You can use the --table option to specify a table name.
If you specify multiple table names, separate them with commas (,). The letter cases of the table name and the file name must be the same.
Examples:

In MySQL mode, table names are in lowercase by default. In this case, the table name specified by the `--table` option must be in lowercase, and the file name specified by the -f option must also be in lowercase. 

In Oracle mode, table names are in uppercase by default. In this case, the table name specified by the `--table` option must be in uppercase, and the file name specified by the -f option must also be in uppercase.

Precautions for exporting table schemas and data 
---------------------------------------------------------------------

* If you want to export the schemas of a large number of tables, we recommend that you set the `--threads` option to a value no more than 4. An excessively high concurrency increases the burden of accessing internal views for the SYS tenant and causes an export timeout error. In addition, when you enable concurrent threads, the `--threads` option is dynamically adjusted based on the CPU utilization. You can manually specify the number of concurrent threads to control the impact of export on the host performance.

  

* OBDUMPER may use a large amount of memory when a large amount of data is exported. You can open the OBDUMPER script in the bin directory and modify the following two Java virtual machine (JVM) parameters: `-Xms4G` and `-Xmx4G`. The -Xms4G parameter specifies the initial heap memory, and the -Xmx4G parameter specifies the maximum heap memory for JVM. We recommend that you set both parameters to 60% of the available physical memory. 

  ```unknow
  vim bin/obdumper
  
   50 JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -server -Xms4G -Xmx4G -XX:MetaspaceSize=512M -XX:MaxMetaspaceSize=512M -Xss352K"
  ```

  




Options that must be enclosed in single quotation marks (' ') or double quotation marks (" ") in the OBLOADER or OBDUMPER script 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We recommend that you enclose complex options such as passwords and cluster names in quotation marks. 

* On the Windows operating system, use double quotation marks (" "). Example: `--table "*"`.

  

* On a Linux-like operating system, use single quotation marks (' '). Example: `--table '*'`.

  




Differences between using OBDUMBER in Alibaba Cloud and in a private cloud 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Difference in proxyro privileges:

  * In Alibaba Cloud (limited mode), you have limited proxyro privileges and can export only table data and the schemas of tables and views.

    
  
  * In a private cloud (unlimited mode), you have unlimited proxyro privileges and can export the schemas and data of all objects in a database.

    
  

  

* Difference in connection methods:

  * In Alibaba Cloud, OBDUMBER is connected by using the --public-cloud option.

    
  
  * In a private cloud, OBDUMBER is connected by using the --sys-password option or a key file. 

    **Note**

    

    The limited mode does not support all features of OBDUMBER. In this mode, the performance and stability of OBDUMBER are also affected. In addition, only OceanBase Database V2.2.30 and later support throttling on servers. Therefore, when you use the limited mode, you need to run the following commands to modify the throttling settings on servers:

    ```sql
    alter system set freeze_trigger_percentage=50;
    alter system set minor_merge_concurrence=64;
    alter system set writing_throttling_trigger_percentage=80 t
    ```

    
    
  

  



