FAQ 
========================
#docslug#/obloader-obdumper/obloader-obdumper/V3.1.0/obdumper-faq


Q: How do I run OBDUMPER in debugging mode? 

A: You can directly run the debug script in the bin directory. For example, you can run obdumper-debug. 
<br><br><br>
Q: Why does the control file configured for a table fail to take effect when I import data to or export data from the table? 

A: The name of the control file must be identical to the table name. By default, table names are in lowercase in MySQL mode and in uppercase in Oracle mode. 
<br><br><br>
Q: Why does OBDUMPER not generate an empty data file when it exports an empty table? 

A: By default, OBDUMPER does not generate an empty data file for an empty table. You can specify the `--retain-empty-files` option to generate an empty data file for an empty table. 
<br><br><br>
Q: Why are command-line options not parsed as expected when I run the OBDUMPER script? 

A: This issue may occur if command-line option values contain special characters. If you run OBDUMPER on Linux OS, a greater-than sign (\>) in the password may cause the loss of all operational logs. This is because the greater-than sign (\>) is a redirection operator. Therefore, you must use appropriate quotation marks to resolve this issue on different OS platforms. 
<br><br><br>
Q: What do I do if the `Connection reset` error is reported after I use the `--query-sql` option to specify large query statements for OBDUMPER? 

A: Log on to the SYS tenant, and set the `client_tcp_user_timeout` and `server_tcp_user_timeout` parameters of OBProxy to 0. 
<br><br><br>
Q: What do I do if the following error is reported when I start OBDUMPER: `Access denied for user 'root'@'xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx'`? 

A: By default, OBDUMPER requires the privileges of the root@sys user. If you have set a password for the root@sys user in the cluster, specify the password in the `--sys-password` option in the command. 
<br><br><br>
Q: What do I do if the following error is reported when OBDUMPER is running: `The target directory: "xxx" is not empty`? 

A: To prevent data overwriting, OBDUMPER checks whether the destination directory is empty before data export. You can specify the `--skip-check-dir` option to skip this check. 
<br><br><br>
Q: What do I do if the following error is reported when OBDUMPER is running: `Request to read too old versioned data`? 

A: The data version that the current query depends on has been recycled. You need to set an UNDO retention period based on the query. <br> For example, you can execute `set global undo_retention=xxx`. The default unit for the parameter is seconds. 
<br><br><br>
Q: What do I do if the following error is reported when I query views on OBDUMPER: `SELECT command denied to user 'xxx'@'%' for table SYS.XXX`? 

A: This error is reported because you are not authorized to access internal tables or views. Execute the following statement to obtain required privileges: `GRANT SELECT SYS.XXX TO xxx;`.
